docs/06-collisionchecking.md, before:

# Collision check :computer:

<table>
  <tr>
    <th><i>Prerequisites:</i></th><td><a href="./00-preliminaries.html" target="_top">Preliminaries</a></td><td><a href="./01-hello-world.html" target="_top">Hello-world</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Collision check

In this exercise, we implement collision checking routines. 
The goal is to obtain a module that can perform collision checks between basic geometric primitives.
This can then be used for a given robot to check whether its candidate (sub-)paths are collision-free.


### Collision check primitives

We start off by implementing some collision check primitives for basic geometric shapes. These will come handy later on. 
The first step is to implement the functions inside the `CollisionPrimitives` class in `src/pdm4ar/exercises/ex06/collision_primitives.py` file.
In this section, we suggest to use linear algebra modules like `numpy`. 
But you are not allowed to use modules that implements collision check directly such as `shapely`.

#### Step 1: Point-Circle Collision Checking Procedure

The aim of this step is to implement a function that checks whether a point is inside the given circle or not.
To represent a point and circle, the following data structures (`src/pdm4ar/exercises_def/ex06/structures.py`) will be used:

```python
@dataclass(frozen=True)
class Point(GeoPrimitive):
    x: float
    y: float

    def apply_SE2transform(self, t: SE2value) -> "Point":
        p = t @ np.array([self.x, self.y, 1])
        return Point(p[0], p[1])

@dataclass(frozen=True)
class Circle(GeoPrimitive):
    center: Point
    radius: float

    def apply_SE2transform(self, t: SE2value) -> "Circle":
        c1 = self.center.apply_SE2transform(t)
        return replace(self, center=c1)
```

In this part, you will implement the `circle_point_collision` function of `CollisionPrimitives` class.

#### Step 2: Point-Triangle Collision Checking Procedure

The aim of this step is to implement a function that checks whether a point is inside the given triangle or not. The algorithm which will be implemented is explained [here](http://www.jeffreythompson.org/collision-detection/tri-point.php#:~:text=To%20test%20if%20a%20point,the%20corners%20of%20the%20triangle.). 
To represent the triangle, the following data structure (`src/pdm4ar/exercises_def/ex06/structures.py`) will be used:

```python
@dataclass(frozen=True)
class Triangle(GeoPrimitive):
    v1: Point
    v2: Point
    v3: Point
```

In this part, you will implement the `triangle_point_collision` function of `CollisionPrimitives` class.

#### Step 3: Point-Polygon Collision Checking Procedure

The aim of this step is to implement a function that checks whether a point is inside the given polygon or not. 
Initially a polygon will be decomposed into triangles via the `triangulate` function of the [triangle module](https://github.com/drufat/triangle). 
The documentation of this module could also be found [here](https://rufat.be/triangle/).
Finally, using the `triangle_point_collision` collision between a polygon and point will be detected. 
To represent the polygon, the following data structure (`src/pdm4ar/exercises_def/ex_collision_check/data.py`) will be used:

```python
@dataclass(frozen=True)
class Polygon(GeoPrimitive):
    vertices: List[Point]
```

In this part, you will implement the `polygon_point_collision` function of `CollisionPrimitives` class.

#### Step 4: Line-Circle Collision Checking Procedure

The aim is to implement a function that checks whether a line collides with a circle or not. The algorithm which will be implemented is explained [here](https://www.jeffreythompson.org/collision-detection/line-circle.php). To represent the line, the following data structure (`src/pdm4ar/exercises_def/ex06/structures.py`) will be used:

```python
@dataclass(frozen=True)
class Line:
    p1: Point
    p2: Point
```

In this part, you will implement the `circle_line_collision` function of `CollisionPrimitives` class.

#### Step 5: Line-Polygon Collision Checking Procedure

The aim is to implement a function that checks whether a line collides with a polygon or not. The idea is to sample points on the line and check whether they collide or not via the function implemented on `Step 3`.

In this part, you will implement the `polygon_line_collision` function of `CollisionPrimitives` class.

#### Step 6: Optimization via Axis-Aligned Bounding Boxes

The performance of the collision checker are quite important for running planning algorithm in reasonable time.
In this step, the aim is to remove unnecessary collision check operations via axis-aligned bounding boxes. 
As a result, we aim to see the execution time difference between pure collision checking and collision checking with the optimization.

First, implement `_poly_to_aabb` that calculates the axis-aligned bounding box that approximates a given polygon. 
Then, use it within the `polygon_line_collision_aabb` function of `CollisionPrimitives` class.

### Collision check module

In the second part of this exercise, we leverage the collision primitives just implemented to perform collision checking for our robot. 
The task is to implement the functions in the `CollisionChecker` class in `src/pdm4ar/exercises/ex06/collision_checker.py`.

#### Step 7: Collision Checking Procedure for Circle-shaped Robot

In this step, the aim is to find the collisions inside a 2D world that contains fixed polygon-shaped obstacles. The input will be a set of points that represents the path of the robot. Because, robot is a circle-shaped collision check can be done by extending the sizes of obstacles by the radius of the robot, and checking line-obstacle collisions. 
To represent the path of robot, the following data structure (`src/pdm4ar/exercises_def/ex06/data.py`) will be used:

```python
@dataclass(frozen=True)
class Path:
    waypoints: List[Point]
```
In this step, two functions will be implemented. Initially, a function (`extend_obstacle`) that takes a polygon and a radius as input and returns the extended version of that polygon. And the second function (`path_collision_check`) will firstly extend all obstacles inside the environment, and check the collision via functions that were implemented before. 
As a result, `path_collision_check` function returns the list of line segment indices where there exists a collision.

Please note that the definition of `Path` and `Polygons` are similar. 
`Polygon` class connects the first and last vertices by default. 
However, there is not any connection between first and last waypoints in `Path` objects. 

#### Step 8: Collision Checking via Occupancy Grid

In this step, the aim is same as `Step 7`. 
However, in this step, you will use different approach for collision checking. 
Initially, you will extend all obstacles inside the environment. 
Then, you will create an occupancy grid of the map. 
Lastly, you will return the list of line segment indices where there exists a collision. 
In this step, you will implement `path_collision_check_occupancy_grid` function.

#### Step 9: Collision Checking on Robot Frame

In this step, the function (`collision_check_robot_frame`) which will be implemented will be called sequentially. 
At each step, current pose of the robot, and currently observed obstacles in the robot frame will be given as input. 
At each step, observed obstacles will be converted into the fixed frame and stored. 
Then, at each step, the function will return whether there exists a collision of not between current position and next position of the robot with the function implemented at the first part of the exercise. 

#### Step 10: Collision Checking via R-Tree

The aim of the last step is to improve the execution time performance of the collision checking module via r-tree. 
Initially, the r-tree will be constructed with the given map. 
Then, collision check will be applied using constructed r-tree. 
`path_collision_check_r_tree` is the name of the function that will be implemented.

#### Step 11: Collision Checking via Safety Certificates

In this section, the aim is to implement a more efficient collision check procedure by using safety certificates via `path_collision_check_safety_certificate` function. 
To obtain detailed information about the algorithm, you can check the part that is related to the safety certificates from the [given paper](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/0278364915625345) (`Algorithm 1`). 
To calculate the distance between a point and an obstacle, you are allowed to use `shapely` module. 
Please note that you are only allowed to use `shapely` to calculate the distance between a Point and a Polygon.

### Evaluation

For this exercise our performance metric is accuracy. 
As test data, for each step random inputs are generated with the algorithm provided in `src/pdm4ar/exercises_def/ex06/data.py`. 
For each step, there are multiple test cases for each step. 
The accuracies of steps 1-6 are calculated by the ratio of the correct answers. 
For the steps 6-11, List of indices are converted into a boolean list which represents whether there is a collision on each line segment of the path. 
The accuracies of steps 6-11 are calculated by the average of the accuracy of test cases. 
Lastly, accuracies of each step are aggregated as weighted average. 
Weights and number of test cases of evaluation are as follows:


| Step **ID** | **Number of Test Cases** | Evaluation Weight |
|-------------|--------------------------|-------------------|
| 01          | 15                       | 5                 |
| 02          | 15                       | 10                |
| 03          | 15                       | 10                |
| 04          | 15                       | 10                |
| 05          | 15                       | 5                 |
| 06          | 15                       | 5                 |
| 07          | 10                       | 20                |
| 08          | 10                       | 20                |
| 09          | 10                       | 30                |
| 10          | 10                       | 20                |
| 11          | 10                       | 30                |

##### How to run

Make sure to update your repo before running the exercise. Please refer to [Hello World](01-helloworld.md) for instructions. 
Additionally, to use `triangle` module, please trigger the following VSCode command: `Remote-Containers: Rebuild Container`.

Commit message:

Triangle segment collision is added

docs/06-collisionchecking.md, after:

# Collision check :computer:

<table>
  <tr>
    <th><i>Prerequisites:</i></th><td><a href="./00-preliminaries.html" target="_top">Preliminaries</a></td><td><a href="./01-hello-world.html" target="_top">Hello-world</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Collision check

In this exercise, we implement collision checking routines. 
The goal is to obtain a module that can perform collision checks between basic geometric primitives.
This can then be used for a given robot to check whether its candidate (sub-)paths are collision-free.


### Collision check primitives

We start off by implementing some collision check primitives for basic geometric shapes. These will come handy later on. 
The first step is to implement the functions inside the `CollisionPrimitives` class in `src/pdm4ar/exercises/ex06/collision_primitives.py` file.
In this section, we suggest to use linear algebra modules like `numpy`. 
But you are not allowed to use modules that implements collision check directly such as `shapely`.

#### Step 1: Point-Circle Collision Checking Procedure

The aim of this step is to implement a function that checks whether a point is inside the given circle or not.
To represent a point and circle, the following data structures (`src/pdm4ar/exercises_def/ex06/structures.py`) will be used:

```python
@dataclass(frozen=True)
class Point(GeoPrimitive):
    x: float
    y: float

    def apply_SE2transform(self, t: SE2value) -> "Point":
        p = t @ np.array([self.x, self.y, 1])
        return Point(p[0], p[1])

@dataclass(frozen=True)
class Circle(GeoPrimitive):
    center: Point
    radius: float

    def apply_SE2transform(self, t: SE2value) -> "Circle":
        c1 = self.center.apply_SE2transform(t)
        return replace(self, center=c1)
```

In this part, you will implement the `circle_point_collision` function of `CollisionPrimitives` class.

#### Step 2: Point-Triangle Collision Checking Procedure

The aim of this step is to implement a function that checks whether a point is inside the given triangle or not. The algorithm which will be implemented is explained [here](http://www.jeffreythompson.org/collision-detection/tri-point.php#:~:text=To%20test%20if%20a%20point,the%20corners%20of%20the%20triangle.). 
To represent the triangle, the following data structure (`src/pdm4ar/exercises_def/ex06/structures.py`) will be used:

```python
@dataclass(frozen=True)
class Triangle(GeoPrimitive):
    v1: Point
    v2: Point
    v3: Point
```

In this part, you will implement the `triangle_point_collision` function of `CollisionPrimitives` class.

#### Step 3: Point-Polygon Collision Checking Procedure

The aim of this step is to implement a function that checks whether a point is inside the given polygon or not. 
Initially a polygon will be decomposed into triangles via the `triangulate` function of the [triangle module](https://github.com/drufat/triangle). 
The documentation of this module could also be found [here](https://rufat.be/triangle/).
Finally, using the `triangle_point_collision` collision between a polygon and point will be detected. 
To represent the polygon, the following data structure (`src/pdm4ar/exercises_def/ex_collision_check/data.py`) will be used:

```python
@dataclass(frozen=True)
class Polygon(GeoPrimitive):
    vertices: List[Point]
```

In this part, you will implement the `polygon_point_collision` function of `CollisionPrimitives` class.

#### Step 4: Segment-Circle Collision Checking Procedure

The aim is to implement a function that checks whether a line collides with a circle or not. The algorithm which will be implemented is explained [here](https://www.jeffreythompson.org/collision-detection/line-circle.php). To represent the line, the following data structure (`src/pdm4ar/exercises_def/ex06/structures.py`) will be used:

```python
@dataclass(frozen=True)
class Segment:
    p1: Point
    p2: Point
```

In this part, you will implement the `circle_line_collision` function of `CollisionPrimitives` class.

#### Step 5: Segment-Triangle Collision Checking Procedure

The aim is to implement a function that checks whether a Segment collides with a triangle or not. The idea is to sample points on the line and check whether they collide or not via the function implemented on `Step 2`.

In this part, you will implement the `triangle_segment_collision` function of `CollisionPrimitives` class.

#### Step 6: Segment-Polygon Collision Checking Procedure

The aim is to implement a function that checks whether a line collides with a polygon or not. The idea is to sample points on the line and check whether they collide or not via the function implemented on `Step 3`.

In this part, you will implement the `polygon_line_collision` function of `CollisionPrimitives` class.

#### Step 7: Optimization via Axis-Aligned Bounding Boxes

The performance of the collision checker are quite important for running planning algorithm in reasonable time.
In this step, the aim is to remove unnecessary collision check operations via axis-aligned bounding boxes. 
As a result, we aim to see the execution time difference between pure collision checking and collision checking with the optimization.

First, implement `_poly_to_aabb` that calculates the axis-aligned bounding box that approximates a given polygon. 
Then, use it within the `polygon_line_collision_aabb` function of `CollisionPrimitives` class.

### Collision check module

In the second part of this exercise, we leverage the collision primitives just implemented to perform collision checking for our robot. 
The task is to implement the functions in the `CollisionChecker` class in `src/pdm4ar/exercises/ex06/collision_checker.py`.

#### Step 8: Collision Checking Procedure for Circle-shaped Robot

In this step, the aim is to find the collisions inside a 2D world that contains fixed polygon-shaped obstacles. The input will be a set of points that represents the path of the robot. Because, robot is a circle-shaped collision check can be done by extending the sizes of obstacles by the radius of the robot, and checking line-obstacle collisions. 
To represent the path of robot, the following data structure (`src/pdm4ar/exercises_def/ex06/data.py`) will be used:

```python
@dataclass(frozen=True)
class Path:
    waypoints: List[Point]
```
In this step, two functions will be implemented. Initially, a function (`extend_obstacle`) that takes a polygon and a radius as input and returns the extended version of that polygon. And the second function (`path_collision_check`) will firstly extend all obstacles inside the environment, and check the collision via functions that were implemented before. 
As a result, `path_collision_check` function returns the list of line segment indices where there exists a collision.

Please note that the definition of `Path` and `Polygons` are similar. 
`Polygon` class connects the first and last vertices by default. 
However, there is not any connection between first and last waypoints in `Path` objects. 

#### Step 9: Collision Checking via Occupancy Grid

In this step, the aim is same as `Step 7`. 
However, in this step, you will use different approach for collision checking. 
Initially, you will extend all obstacles inside the environment. 
Then, you will create an occupancy grid of the map. 
Lastly, you will return the list of line segment indices where there exists a collision. 
In this step, you will implement `path_collision_check_occupancy_grid` function.

#### Step 10: Collision Checking on Robot Frame

In this step, the function (`collision_check_robot_frame`) which will be implemented will be called sequentially. 
At each step, current pose of the robot, and currently observed obstacles in the robot frame will be given as input. 
At each step, observed obstacles will be converted into the fixed frame and stored. 
Then, at each step, the function will return whether there exists a collision of not between current position and next position of the robot with the function implemented at the first part of the exercise. 

#### Step 11: Collision Checking via R-Tree

The aim of the last step is to improve the execution time performance of the collision checking module via r-tree. 
Initially, the r-tree will be constructed with the given map. 
Then, collision check will be applied using constructed r-tree. 
`path_collision_check_r_tree` is the name of the function that will be implemented.

#### Step 12: Collision Checking via Safety Certificates

In this section, the aim is to implement a more efficient collision check procedure by using safety certificates via `path_collision_check_safety_certificate` function. 
To obtain detailed information about the algorithm, you can check the part that is related to the safety certificates from the [given paper](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/0278364915625345) (`Algorithm 1`). 
To calculate the distance between a point and an obstacle, you are allowed to use `shapely` module. 
Please note that you are only allowed to use `shapely` to calculate the distance between a Point and a Polygon.

### Evaluation

For this exercise our performance metric is accuracy. 
As test data, for each step random inputs are generated with the algorithm provided in `src/pdm4ar/exercises_def/ex06/data.py`. 
For each step, there are multiple test cases for each step. 
The accuracies of steps 1-6 are calculated by the ratio of the correct answers. 
For the steps 6-11, List of indices are converted into a boolean list which represents whether there is a collision on each line segment of the path. 
The accuracies of steps 6-11 are calculated by the average of the accuracy of test cases. 
Lastly, accuracies of each step are aggregated as weighted average. 
Weights and number of test cases of evaluation are as follows:


| Step **ID** | **Number of Test Cases** | Evaluation Weight |
|-------------|--------------------------|-------------------|
| 01          | 15                       | 5                 |
| 02          | 15                       | 10                |
| 03          | 15                       | 10                |
| 04          | 15                       | 10                |
| 05          | 15                       | 5                 |
| 06          | 15                       | 5                 |
| 07          | 10                       | 20                |
| 08          | 10                       | 20                |
| 09          | 10                       | 30                |
| 10          | 10                       | 20                |
| 11          | 10                       | 30                |

##### How to run

Make sure to update your repo before running the exercise. Please refer to [Hello World](01-helloworld.md) for instructions. 
Additionally, to use `triangle` module, please trigger the following VSCode command: `Remote-Containers: Rebuild Container`.
